LifeLines installation for Windows
  Last Edited: 2003-03-05 by Perry Rapp

1) Extract the lifelines zip, eg, to c:\ which should result in all
the lifelines programs & files appearing under c:\lifelines

2) If your root lifelines directory is not c:\lifelines, edit
lines.cfg and adjust the variable %llroot% accordingly.  Also, make
any necessary changes to other directory variables in the file, if
they are not correct for your setup.

3) If your editor does not use the default codeset for your version of
MS-Windows (which is CP-1252 for US English Windows), then set the
config variable EditorCodeset. The GUI codeset, and the locales,
should all be deduced correctly by lifelines at runtime from your
environment, so you do not need to set them.

4) If you want to use UTF-8 internally, enable the UTF-8 setting in
your lines.cfg (edit the entry NewDbProps). This is still under
development. If you wish to use just an 8-bit codeset internally, set
it the same way. It is necessary that you specify an internal codeset
for lifelines to do codeset conversion, and codeset conversion is
fairly necessary on MS-Windows, because the Console mode window uses a
different codeset than the rest of MS-Windows.

5) To create a shortcut for Lifelines, open a windows explorer window
(eg, right-click on "My Computer" and choose Explore), browse to your
program directory of step (2) (eg, \Program Files\LifeLines),
right-click on the executable (Lines.exe) and choose Copy, then move
your cursor to a clear area on your desktop (the background where My
Computer sits), and right-click and choose Paste Shortcut. This is
your desktop shortcut to run the program.

6) Right-click on the new shortcut icon on your desktop, and choose
Rename. Adjust the name as you like (eg, to LifeLines).

Now you are ready to run LifeLines: refer to the
Run.LifeLines.Windows.txt document.



References:

LifeLines on the web:
  http://lifelines.sourceforge.net/

Mailing list:
  To subscribe to the list, send email to
        listserv@listserv.nodak.edu
    with the BODY of the mail containing
        SUB LINES-L your full name


