Running LifeLines for Windows
  Last Edited: 2003-03-05 by Perry Rapp

(This presumes you have installed it, per the
Install.LifeLines.Windows.txt document)

1) Double-click on the shortcut on your desktop for
LifeLines.  A Console (or "DOS") window should open, with
the title bar giving the LifeLines version, and with a
prompt in the middle of the screen, asking "What directory
holds the LifeLines database ?  enter path:"

2) Enter a name for your first LifeLines database.  It must
be a valid Windows directory name (no slashes, no colon, no
quotation marks...).  LifeLines will then create & open this
brand new empty database for you.

This will be a directory underneath your lifelines database
directory, and you can rename it at any time later by simply
renaming the directory -- of course you should not do this
whilst you have that database open in LifeLines.

3) At this point, your best course of action is to begin
reading the users manual portion of the documentation. This
is available in the documentation download at the
sourceforge site, and there are some older versions
available for browsing directly on the web, from the
sourceforge home site. This manual explains how to proceed,
adding data and so forth.

Here is a URL to one version:

http://lifelines.sourceforge.net/manual307/index.html

(You are at the Main Menu section now, but you would be
well-advised to read the previous Introduction to GEDCOM
section as well.)

4) When adding a new record (eg, a new person to the
database), LifeLines will cause Notepad to appear.  Enter
your information in Notepad -- the following page of the
online manual discusses entering your first person:

http://lifelines.sourceforge.net/manual307/userguide/first.html


After you have entered the information into Notepad, save
the document by choose Save from the File menu, and then
close Notepad (eg, Alt-F4). Switch back to LifeLines if
necessary, and click on its titlebar if it is not
highlighted. It will have a prompt displayed, asking whether
or not you really wish to add the new person. Normally you
respond y and add your new person.

5) Note on menu items: LifeLines now has significantly more
menu choices in many screens than were present in older
versions of LifeLines.  Many screens cannot fit all choices
on screen at one time. If you see the choice "? Other menu
choices" in the lower left, as the second to last choice ("q
quit" is always the last choice), then this indicates there
is more than one page of menu choices. You can view all
pages of menu choices by pressing the ? key repeatedly; this
will cycle through the pages of choices one at a time.

There is also an indication at the top of the menu such as
  (pg 1/3)
  
to tell you that you are viewing the first page of three
pages of menu choices for the current screen.

6) If you wish to change the colors in the console window
(the "dos" window), here is how. (This is actually not part
of LifeLines, but is general DOS on Windows trivia).

Run the program.

Left-click in the upper-left corner (the system menu, which
is probably a little red box with LL in it).  You should get
a popup menu, with Move, Size, Minimize, Maximize, (a
horizontal bar), Close, Edit, Properties.  Click on
Properties.  You should get a tabbed dialog - click on the
color tab.  Set the upper two radio button choices -
foreground & background color - and when you hit Ok, it
should ask you if this is a change for this window only (ie,
only this time you're running it), or if it is a permanent
change for this shortcut (ie, you'll see the new colors
every time from now on). Choose permanent - you can always
change them later the same way.



References:

LifeLines on the web:
  http://lifelines.sf.net/


Mailing list:
  To subscribe to the list, send email to
        listserv@listserv.nodak.edu
    with the BODY of the mail containing
        SUB LINES-L your full name

